# Docker Layers

## Immutable Layers

- Docker images are made up of multiple layers.
- Each layer is a set of read-only files.
- When you run a container, Docker mounts a read-write layer on top of the read-only layers.
- This is also known as **COW** (Copy-On-Write) mechanism.
	- COW is a strategy used in computer storage systems and software to avoid coping data until it becomes necessary.
	- COW is used to optimize the performance of storage systems.
	- Imagine you have a file that is stored in a read-only layer. When you modify the file, Docker creates a new read-write layer and stores the modified file in it.
  - This way, the original file in the read-only layer remains unchanged.

Example:

- Let's say you have a Docker image with the following layers:
  - Layer 1: Ubuntu
  - Layer 2: Apache
  - Layer 3: PHP
  - Layer 4: Your web application

```dockerfile
# Base image layer
FROM ubuntu
# Install Apache
RUN apt-get update
#  Install PHP
RUN apt-get install apache2 -y

# Copy your web application
COPY . /var/www/html
```


- When you run a container from this image, Docker mounts a read-write layer on top of these read-only layers.- When you run a container from this image, Docker mounts a read-write layer on top of the read-only layers.
- This read-write layer is where your web application writes data.
- This way, the original layers remain unchanged.

Docker layered approach makes images lightweight, portable and efficient.

## Docker Compose

- Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.
- With Compose, you use a YAML file to configure your application's services.
- Then, with a single command, you create and start all the services from your configuration.

Example:

- Let's say you have a web application that requires:
  - A web server (Apache)
  - A database server (MySQL)

- You can define these services in a `docker-compose.yml` file.
- Then, you can use the `docker-compose up` command to start both services.

Docker Compose is a powerful tool for managing multi-container applications.

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  web:
    image: apache
  db:
    image: mysql
```
